


How is Object-Oriented Programming implemented in 
JavaScript? 
How does it differ from other languages? 
Can you implement Inheritance in JavaScript?
and so on…

There are certain features or mechanisms which make a 
Language Object-Oriented like:

OOPs Concept in JavaScript

Object	       Classes	         Encapsulation
Abstraction	   Inheritance	     Polymorphism

Object: An Object is a unique entity that contains 
properties and methods. For example “a car” is a 
real-life Object, which has some characteristics like 
color, type, model, and horsepower and performs certain 
actions like driving. The characteristics of an Object 
are called Properties in Object-Oriented Programming and 
the actions are called methods. An Object is an instance 
of a class. Objects are everywhere in JavaScript, almost 
every element is an Object whether it is a function, 
array, or string. 

Note: A Method in javascript is a property of an object 
whose value is a function. 

The object can be created in two ways in JavaScript:

Object Literal
Object Constructor

Classes: Classes are blueprints of an Object. A class 
can have many Objects because the class is a template 
while Objects are instances of the class or the concrete 
implementation. 
Before we move further into implementation, we should 
know unlike other Object Oriented languages there are no 
classes in JavaScript 

JavaScript classes, introduced in ECMAScript 2015, are 
primarily syntactical sugar over JavaScript’s existing 
prototype-based inheritance. The class syntax is not 
introducing a new object-oriented inheritance model to 
JavaScript. JavaScript classes provide a much simpler 
and clearer syntax to create objects and deal with 
inheritance. 

-Mozilla Developer Network


 